---
title: cv
layout: post
permalink: /cv/
---

# CV

## Summary

Current pursuing Master Degree in Computer Science at the University of Sao
Paulo, graduated in Software Engineering from the University of Brasilia and
technician degree in Software development from SENAC. I have worked with
different technologies along my professional and academic path. I am extremely
comfortable in learning new technologies and programming language. I am
interested in research related to operating system, embedded systems, low-level
programming, computer architecture, parallel programming, and mobile
programming.

## Professional Background

> **Freelancer Developer, Into the Unknown (November 2016 -- April 2017, Sao Paulo, Brazil):**

A Journey through Science Fiction: Into the Unknown was an exhibition
organized by Barbican, England and later moved to Greece. We had to develop two
applications for running in a desktop and tablet. First application was written
in C++ with SDL, and managing user access to different games. The second was a
music player written in Java for executing in Android Environment. Both
software lock down the application to protect desktop and tablet of unwanted
access from users (Kiosk application). I worked with one developer and a
tester; we also had to interact with a design
team.

> **Developer and Technical Leader, Brazilian Public Software (July 2014 -- December 2015, Brasilia, Brazil):**

The Brazilian Public Software (SPB) was a
thirty-month project created in partnership with Brazilian Ministry of
Planning, Budget, and Management (MPOG) and University of Brasilia. During the
project, I worked with Python, Ruby, Django, Rails, Chef, and CentOS
environment. I actively worked in the creation and organization of the DevOps
team. SPB was composed of 6 different teams, with an average of 30 members per
semester, because of this I also worked as a technical leader, supporting the
management of other teams.

> **Android Developer as Intern at Samsung (2012 -- 2013, Suwon-si, South Korea) :**

I was an intern at Samsung in 2014 as an intern, after a long selection
process. First day at the company was solely focused in developing an Android
app from scratch, considering I was new to it, that was quite a challenge.
Firstly, I have built a paper prototype with the main idea of the application
to avoid waste time with wrong requirements. Secondly, I developed the
entity-relationship of my database, in parallel, I designed the architecture. I
focused to create a robust architecture, consequently, I applied several design
patterns (MVC, Strategy, Observer, Method Factory, Singleton, and Active
Record).  In the half of my internship, my Android skills improved a lot, but
was not enough for accomplishing the project requirement.  In order to finish
my tasks and keep quality, I decided to do overtime. I coded many hours per
day, but always kept my attention on my code style, documentation (Doxygen),
and the use of SDK tools instead of using IDE. At the end of the internship, I
had to defend my project in front of many engineers that I have never seen.
Fortunately, everybody liked my project and I successfully concluded my
internship.

> **Web Developerat at AEG (September 2011 -- July 2012, Brasilia, Brazil):**

AEG is a small company, which provides business consultancy to
other businesses. When I worked for AEG, they needed a web system for handling
their client's complaints and suggestions. In this sense, I was designated to
create software for managing their requests. Firstly, I understood the
requirements and then designed the architecture. I have created the system
which uses MySQL 4.0, PHP 4.3, and running under Apache 2.3.

## Academic Background

> **January 2016 -- May 2018, University of Sao Paulo (USP) - Institute of
Mathematics and Statistics, Sao Paulo, SP:**

Current I am pursuing a M.S. in Computer Science at USP and my research area is
in Operating Systems. At the beginning of my M.s, I worked on a project with
Hewlett Packard (HP), wherein I was involved with the study of memory
management algorithms for large memory. I evaluated the behavior of one
specific algorithm implemented from HP, by using a real-world application:
Apache Httpd. I modified the Apache Web server for using HP's code and create a
particular benchmark to evaluate it. I am still working on my master.

> **July 2009 -- July 2015, University of Brasilia, Software Engineering with
major in electronics, Brasilia, DF:**

During my undergraduate, I realized that
my favorite subject is embedded systems and operating systems; as a result, I
took many extra classes related to a digital systems and low-level programming.
I joined the embedded system laboratory and worked with Samsung S3C2440 in a
bare metal environment to build a telemetry system. Although I focused on
embedded systems, I studied many techniques related to code quality. I also
joined a laboratory named LAPPIS which gave me the opportunity to work on a
large web system. Finally, in my capstone project, I worked with GPUs.

## Extra-curricular activity

> **July 2013 -- July 2014, Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU), Exchange student in
Computer Engineering, South Korea, Suwon:**

I decided to study in South Korea
because of the excellence in the embedded systems, and because I wished for an
internship in the Samsung Digital City. During my stay, I focused on low-level
programming and operating systems. Additionally, I tried to improve my English
skills and learned the basic level of Korean language. I joined the automation
laboratory where I stayed for 6 months. When I was in the automation lab,
Professor Jae Wook Jeon oriented me to study GPU in embedded systems. I
followed his advice, and concentrated my efforts in deeply understanding the
subject.

## Publications

* Continuous Delivery: Building Trust in a Large-scale, Complex Government Organization (IEEE Software): Accepted, still on wait for publication
* Brazilian Public Software Portal: an integrated platform for collaborative development (OpenSym '17)
* Optimizing a Boundary Elements Method for Stationary Elastodynamic Problems implementation with GPUs (WSCAD'17)

## Technical and Personal skills

* **Programming Languages:** C/C++ C99 and C11, Java 6 and 7, Android, Python
2.7, Assembly Samsung S32440 and 8086, Ruby 2.4, Rails 4.2, and Django 1.7

* **Basic Tools:** GCC 7.2, GNU/Linux Environment (Debian, Arch, CentOS),
Continuous Integration, Make 4.2, vim 8.0, git 2.15, Doxygen 1.8, neomutt,
Latex, Ansible

* **Languages:** English
