---
layout: post
title: "Status Update and XDC 2019, October 2019"
date: 2019-10-12
categories: status_update
published: true
---

It has been a while that I do not write anything here, the reasons for that is
because I had to move from Brazil to Canada on August 5th. Why did I move? I
got hired by AMD for working in the display team in Toronto, thanks to Harry
Wentland (AMD) help. I suppose that I'll be around the DRM subsystem for a long
time.

I have a few updates about my work with the community since I have been busy
with the adaptation; however, my main updates came from XDC 2019, and I want to
start with that.

# XDC 2019 -  Montr√©al (Concordia University Conference)

This year I had the great luck of join XDC once again; however, at this time, I
was with Harry Wentland, Nicholas Kazlauskas, and Leo Li (we work together at
AMD). We put effort into learning with other people's experiences, and we also
tried to know what the compositor developers want to see in our driver. We also
used this opportunity to try to explain a little bit more about our product
features. In particular, we had conversations about Freesync, MST, DKMS, and so
forth; with this in mind, I'll share my view of the most exciting moments that
we had.

## VKMS

As usual, I tried my best to see what people want to see in VKMS soon or later.
For example, from the XDC 2018, I focused on fix some bugs but mainly in add
writeback support since it could provide a visual output (this work is almost
done, see XPTO). For this year, I had collected feedback from multiple people
(special thanks to Marten, Lyude, Hiler, and Harry), and from these
conversations, I want to work in the following tasks:

1. Finish the writeback feature and enable visual output;
2. Add support for adaptive refresh rate;
3. Add support for "dynamic connectors", which can enable the MST test.

Martin Peres gave a talk that he shared his views for the CI and test. In his
presentation, he suggested to use VKMS to validate the API, and I have to admit
that I'm really excited about this idea. I hope that I can help with this.

## Freesync

The `amdgpu` drivers support a technology named Freesync. In a few words, this
feature allows the dynamic change of the refreshes rate, which can bring
benefits for games and also for power saving. Harry Wayland gave a talk about
this feature, and you can see it here:

link

I noticed that many people that work with the user-space were interested in
this feature because after Harry's presentation many people asked questions
related to this subject. Roman Gilg, from KDE was one of the developers that
asked for a protocol extension in Wayland for support Freesync; additionally,
compositor developers asked for mechanisms that enable them to know in advance
if the experience of a specific panel will be good or not. Finally, there were
some discussions about the use of Freesync for power saving and also in an
application that requires time-sensitive.

## IGT and CI

This year I kept my tradition of asking thousands of questions to Hiler with the goal of learn more about IGT, and as usual, he is always extremely kind and gentle with my questions (thanks Hiler). One of the concepts that Hiler explained to me, it is the use of `podman` (LINK) for prepare IGT image, for example, after a few minute of code pair with him I could run IGT on my machine after execute the following commands:

```
sudo su
podman run --privileged registry.freedesktop.org/drm/igt-gpu-tools/igt:master
podman run --privileged registry.freedesktop.org/drm/igt-gpu-tools/igt:master igt_runner -t core_auth
podman run --privileged registry.freedesktop.org/drm/igt-gpu-tools/igt:master igt_runner -t core_auth /tmp
podman run --privileged -v /tmp/results:/results registry.freedesktop.org/drm/igt-gpu-tools/igt:master igt_runner -t core_auth /results
```

This year I kept my tradition of asking thousands of questions to Arkadiusz
Hiler to learn more about IGT, and as usual, he was always extremely kind and
gentle with my questions (thanks Hiler). One of the concepts that Hiler
explained to me, it is the use of `podman` (https://podman.io/) for prepare IGT
image, for example, after a few minutes of code pairing with him I could run
IGT on my machine with the following commands:

We also had a chance to discuss CI with Martin Peres, and he explained his work
for improving the way that the CI keep track of the bugs. In special, he
introduced a fantastic tool named `cibuglog` which is responsible for keep
tracking of test failures and using this data for building a database. Cibuglog
has a lot of nice filters that enable us to see test problems associated with a
specific machine and bugs in the Bugzilla. Thanks Martin for showing us this
amazing tool.

# Updates

I just want to finish this post with brief updates from my work with free
software, starting with `kw` and finish with VKMS.

## Kernel Workflow (`kw`)

When I started to work with VKMS, I wrote a tool named `kworkflow` or simply
`kw` for helping me with basic tasks related to Kernel development. These days
`kw` reborn to me since I was looking for a way to automate my work with
`amdgpu`; as a result, I implemented the following features:

- Kernel deploy in a target machine (any machine reachable via IP);
- Module deploy;
- Capture `.config` file from a target machine;

Unfortunately, the code is not ready for merging in the main branch, and I'm
working on it; I think that in a couple of weeks, I can release a new version
with these features. If you want to know a little bit more about `kw` take a
look at https://siqueira.tech/doc/kw/

## VKMS

I was not working in VKMS due to my change of country; however, now I'm
reworking part of the IGT test related to writeback, and as soon as I finish
it, I'll try to upstream it again. I hope that I can also have the VKMS
writeback merged into the `drm-misc-next` by the end of this month. Finally, I
merged the prime supported implemented by Oleg Vasilev (huge thanks!).
